Okay.
I hope you enjoyed the last lecture.
And you now have a new understanding of the order of mathematical operation.
For now,
we're gonna have a look at how we insert new columns,
a new rose into our data.
So far,
we've set up Oh,
spreadsheet for our fruit and veg shop.
And we can see that we're only selling on Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
Thursday and Friday.
But business is good on,
we know want to open on Saturday,
too.
So what we need to do is add a new common after Friday.
Now there are a few ways to do this.
Firstly,
we could click the column that we want to move over.
So we just left click the column heading of column G.
Because we want to move everything over to the right.
We can come up to the home ribbon and have a look at the cells section just here.
And you can see that we have inserts now on the little down arrow just below there.
If we left click,
we can see that we have different options.
And what we want to look at here is insert sheet columns and you can see that that has just
moved all of our data.
One column over to the right.
I'm just gonna undo that for a second.
And I'm just going to hit the control and said to him,
Do which is a keyboard shortcut for undo?
Okay.
And the other way of doing it is again left Click the column heading of the first column
that you need to move over,
right click.
And you can see down here that we have insert on when we left.
Click that because we've highlighted the entire column,
it will move all the columns over to the right.
So there you go.
Now we can enter undated for Saturday.
So set day and again,
I'm just gonna make up some random numbers in here.
So it's a 12345657 eight on and the total is in the bottom.
Okay,
now,
because we need a total and we have our total in these cells here because I'm in the first
blank cell.
You'll remember that to copyright.
I just hit control on our on.
That formula gets copied across.
So they go.
Now we have managed to insert a new common.
We've re titled it.
And we've put in our sales data No time for a quick sanity check of the formulas we've
already entered.
Okay,
Now,
you'll remember that the first formula that we did was the total column.
Just here in column H.
So if we click on that formula and have a look up here in the formula bar,
we can see that it says some open brackets.
Be five to G five now.
Previously,
it only looked as faras f five.
So because we've inserted a new cell excels automatically worked out that,
actually,
no,
I'm just gonna hit F two now.
You want to add everything,
including your new column,
which is great,
because that means we don't have to Where the seller for me I excel is automatically worked
out.
You probably want to include this in that formula that we did earlier.
So there you go.
If we have a look down there,
we can see the every one of them has corrected itself automatically.
Fantastic stuff.
Okay,
Opening stock was just a number s,
and that's not going to change our closing stock.
We I think.
Yeah,
we referenced the total.
So that's still good a monthly sales.
Let's just have look at their monthly sales.
I'm just gonna get after two.
Yes,
our monthly sales are still good,
cause we're just going to divide the total by four on our average daily sales.
Now,
this isn't good,
because at the moment,
what we've done is we've worked out the average using the divide formula on we divided by
five.
And because we had the number five Excel wouldn't know to update that to six.
Now,
we have six days of sales.
So what we're gonna have to do with this one is just come in left,
click delete five,
hit six,
and then copy that formula down when the cursor changes at the corner,
just double clicking.
So if you use numbers instead of cell references in your formulas,
always take a quick look at your formula to make sure it's still looking at the right data
.
Okay,
that's so you insert a column.
Now,
let's do the same thing for Rose.
what we're gonna do is we're gonna add a new fruit and veg because we're wild and
adventurous.
That way I'm not going to do is just hover over one of the road numbers,
right?
Click and hit insert.
They go in and say Everything's moved down.
And then what are we going to sell?
That we don't curl?
So sell pineapples,
pineapples,
and I saw,
like,
quite pineapples.
So they go pineapples and again,
we'll just make up some random numbers in here Friday on Saturday.
Now you can see that Excel is automatically added the same formula that we have there and
that right there and there,
and automatically worked out that you probably want that formula in there,
too,
so it's automatically written it in.
And if we hit F to weaken,
see,
absolutely.
It's looking at the right data opening stock didn't do that.
No,
because this is just a simple entry that is retyped to number.
It's not a formula.
Excel wouldn't know what value we wanted,
so we'll have to add that manually.
Now,
here's an interesting thing that I want you to have a look at notice that in this column
here we have a bunch of formulas and that this formula is in there.
This Fortner is in there,
but for the new road that we've inserted,
there's absolutely nothing in there at all?
Never.
We added an hour open in stock.
Watch what happens to this cell.
Just here.
Assumes we hit.
Enter they go.
Excels worked out because you have the same form urinal these cells.
Chances are you're probably gonna want it in that cell to,
and it will automatically add it in there for us and they go.
It's done exactly the same thing with the monthly sales.
It's exactly the same thing with the average cells.
So they get very simply.
That's how you insert new columns of data into your table,
a new rows of data into your table.
Just remember,
have a quick 70 check of any formulas by selecting them,
hitting F two and just having a look at the range of data that it's looking at and you're
good to go.
Okay,
see you in the next lecture.